- [Instructor] While creating and configuring
our Chat App server-side components
we should be practicing some
test-driven development along the way.
In this video we will walk through a J unit integration test
that has already been written
to simulate a client sending messages
to the chat server and the major
server-side components responding appropriately.
Writing an integration test at this point
is gonna help us get instant feedback that all of
our configuration implementation is working as expected.
So let's get started on that test.
To begin, I'll point out that our test already exists
and it's located in the src/test/Java directory tree.
And in the chat package.
So what I'm going to do is open up
the chat server integration test and then
double-click on the editor so that we can maximize
and walk through a few things that are already done for you.
But I just wanna point these out so you're aware.
For the purposes of this exercise
we won't go into too much depth on
how to write this J unit test.
But what we will do is walk through
a done-for-you integration test that is using J unit.
And show you how to test that your WebSocket
server-side components actually work well together.
First, let's point out what's happening in setup.
The most significant things are
one, we're creating a WebSocketStompClient.
Spring provides us this convenience class
to let us emulate the Java script client.
The next thing to point out is on that client
we want to make sure we set up our message converter.
This allows us to convert our Json notation data payloads
into Java objects and vice versa.
Next let's look at our test case
we have here for getChatMessage.
I'm gonna scroll down to the bottom
so I can walk you through a few more things
you might want to be aware of.
And let's walk through things
in the order of execution flow.
The first thing the client will do is connect.
So here you can see the code where the client
is establishing a connection by providing the URL.
Part of this URL should be very familiar
because it was one of the things
that we had to register in our message broker.
Step two in our execution flow
the code for that is up a little further.
Once a user is connected or the client is connected
the first thing that they're going to wanna do is
subscribe to a topic or two.
For this test we're gonna subscribe to just one topic
and we have to specify what that is.
So how 'bout for this test we're gonna test out
that we can subscribe to our guest chats topic
and get back an expected response.
The next thing we would do in
order of execution is send in a message.
And if you recall we do have a model class
that we use for sending in messages.
It's called the ChatInMessage.
So I'm gonna create one of those right now.
Create my new ChatInMessage
and I can supply my message right here in my constructor.
And why not the obligatory hello message?
Hello Spring, so I've created my message
now what I have to do is send it.
So I'm gonna get my session object here
and simply call the send method on that object.
There's two arguments that are needed.
One I have to send in my application end point.
This prefect should also look very familiar
because we had to configure this in our message broker.
Second argument we need to send in is myMessage.
And we're done.
Now we're sending a message.
Let's go finish this test off for validating
or in J unit terminology asserting.
What's gonna happen when a response comes back?
So, I'm just gonna add a simple assertEquals statement here.
I expect Hello Spring to come back out
for my ChatOutMessage that the server has sent back.
So I'm gonna call getContent on my greeting.
And there we go, simple test is completed.
Now let's run it.
Now that we see the green bar we can be assured that
all of the plumbing between the client,
the message broker, and a controller is as it should be.
So let's do a quick review.
We were able to show in an already-done-for-you
integration test how to use the
Spring provided WebSocketStompClient class.
We were able to simulate subscribing to
the topic we were interested in,
sending a message to that topic,
and asserting or verifying that the response
that came back is exactly what we expected.
The benefit of practicing test-driven development
at this step is it helps us stay in flow
for server-side development.
Remember in a real application
we would have more controllers to do
and staying in flow is very important.
For more lessons and more specifics
on practicing test-driven development with Spring
there is another course in the library
that specifically goes into depth
on Spring and test-driven development.